Explain tail recursion in F# (#19742)
dotnet/docs: docs/fsharp/language-reference/functions/recursive-functions-the-rec-keyword.md

Recursive functions, functions that call themselves, are identified explicitly in the F# language. This makes the identifer that is being defined available in the scope of the function.

The following code illustrates a trivial recursive function that computes the *n*<sup>th</sup> Fibonacci number.

[!code-fsharp[Main](~/samples/snippets/fsharp/lang-ref-1/snippet4001.fs)]

> [!NOTE]

> > In practice, code like the previous sample is not ideal because it unecessarily recomputes values that have already been computed. This is because it is not tail recursive, which is explained further in the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In practice, code like the previous sample is not ideal because it unecessarily recomputes values that have already been computed. This is because it is not tail recursive, which is explained further in this article.
```

Methods are implicitly recursive within the type; there is no need to add the `rec` keyword. Let bindings within classes are not implicitly recursive.

## Tail recursion

For some recursive functions, it is necessary to refactor a more "pure" definition to one that is [tail recursive](https://cs.stackexchange.com/questions/6230/what-is-tail-recursion). This prevents unecessary recomputations. For example, the previous fibonacci number generator can be rewritten like this:

```fsharp
let fib n =
    let rec loop acc1 acc2 n =
        match n with
        | 0 -> acc1
        | 1 -> acc2
        | _ ->
            loop acc2 (acc1 + acc2) (n - 1)
    loop 0 1 n
```

> This is a more complicated implementation. Generating a fibonacci number is a great example of a "naive" algorithm that is mathematically pure, but inefficient in practice. Making it efficient in F# while still remaining recursively-defined makes use of a few things:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a more complicated implementation. Generating a fibonacci number is a great example of a "naive" algorithm that's mathematically pure but inefficient in practice. Several aspects make it efficient in F# while still remaining recursively defined:
```

> This is a more complicated implementation. Generating a fibonacci number is a great example of a "naiive" algorithm that is mathematically pure, but inefficient in practice. Making it efficient in F# while still remaining recursively-defined makes use of a few things:

Reviewer 2: Typo

```suggestion
This is a more complicated implementation. Generating a fibonacci number is a great example of a "naive" algorithm that is mathematically pure, but inefficient in practice. Making it efficient in F# while still remaining recursively-defined makes use of a few things:
```

* A recursive inner function named `loop`, which is an idiomatic F# pattern
* Two accumulator parameters, which pass accumulate values to recursive calls

> * A check on the value of `n` to return a specific accumulate

Reviewer 2: Not sure if these should end in a period or not.

Author: I generally tend not to place periods here, but if that's the style guide it can be done.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what's the style-guide in this case.

@gewarren Do you know?

If this example were written iteratively with a loop, the code would look similar with two different values accumulating numbers until a particular condition was met.

> The reason why this is tail-recursive is because the recursive call does not need to save any values on the call stack. All intermediate values being calculated are accumulated via inputs to the inner function. This also allows the F# compiler to optimize the code to be just as fast as if you had written something like a `while `loop.

Reviewer 2: Markdown fix.

```suggestion
The reason why this is tail-recursive is because the recursive call does not need to save any values on the call stack. All intermediate values being calculated are accumulated via inputs to the inner function. This also allows the F# compiler to optimize the code to be just as fast as if you had written something like a `while` loop.
```

> It is very common to write F# code that recursively processes something via an inner function that uses tail recursion, then has an outer function with a nicer interface for callers just like the previous example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's common to write F# code that recursively processes something with an inner and outer function, as the previous example shows. The inner function uses tail recursion, while the outer function has a better interface for callers.
```
